# Notes Page  

## Section 4: UI Basicis  

### Tree structure has 5 top-level node  

- Data Sources  
  - Shows the data in the case organized by drive layout and directories.  
  - Alows you to find specific files.  
    - ie. you explicitly want to see their Desktop folder.  
  - Collapsed by default  
- Views  
  - Shows files organized by metadata.  
  - Same data as in the "Data sources" area, just organized differently  
  - View by Type
    - Used this area to focus on files of a certain type, ie. Images, Documents, Executables  
  - Can organize by extension or by file signature (MIME Type)  
    - Extension filtering can be done immediately
    - file type filtering requires all files to be analyzed  
  - View by size  
    - use this area to find large files  
    - Examples: Encrypted volumes; virtual disks  
- Results  
  - shows the results fro the analysis ingest modules  
  - Has Lower-levels of organization  
    - Extracted content contains most  
    - Specialized ones are separated out.
- Tags  
  - Tags are shows what files and results have been tagged
- Reports  
  - Reports area shows the reports generated by the user or a modules  

  ---

### Grouping by datasourse  

 You can choose to organize the tree by data sources. Default is grouping by top level data sources.  This makes it easier to focus on results for a specifice data source.  

 Can change the groups by:  

 1. Selecting the gear and changing it in settings
 2. Autopsy will prompt you when importing more than 5 data sources.  

---

### Table view  

 Default is 10,000 items shown.  
 Search by selecting any item and start typing.  
Many rows have 3 columns to give you a quick contexts about an item:  

1. First column: Score:  
    - Read Circle with white Explination mark:  
      - Item is notable: Hash hit; A notable tag was applied  
    - Yellow Circle with Triangle:  
      - Item is suspicious: A module marked it as "interesting"; A normal tag was applied  
2. Second Column: Comment:  
    - A yellow page is shown if the file has a comment.  
    - Either in the current case or a past case (Requires Central Repository)  
3. Third Column: Occurrences:  
    - How often this item has been seen in past cases (Requires Central Repository)  

Use Google translate folder names.  
Change to thumbnail views for images and videos.  

---

### Content Viewer  

Hex Viewer  

- Displays file content in a basic hex editor  
- Always enabled if file has content  
- Can launch HxD if you need more powerful features  

Text tab  

- Text contain various sub viewers that are all related to to text.  
- Strings:  
  - Shows data that **could** be text in a given encoding.  
  - Can have false positives  
- Indexted Text:  
  - Shows what is in the keywork search index  
  - For supported file types, shows text after parsing structure.  
    - It knows about PDF versus DOC  
  - For unsupported file types, it shows strings.  
- Translation Tab:  
  - Uses Google or Bing translate (if configured)  
  - Translates the same text as shown in "Indexed Text"  

Application Tab  

- File type-specific viewer:  
  - Pictures  
  - Video  
  - SQLite  
  - HTML  
  - Registry  
  - Binary PList  
- Not a generic viewer like hex or raw text  

Message Tab

- Email-like display to show email and text messages  
- Header information and text, RTF and HTML messages.  

File Metadata  

- Shows metadata about a selected file  
- Similar to data to what is in table, ut easier to copy and paste  

Results  

- Shows all analysisi results performed on selected item.  
- Shows all data extracted from the selected item.  
- Data comes form the database blackboard.  

Annotations  

- Shows all examiner-specified data, such as tags and comments.  
- Shows data from both current and past cases (if Central Repository is enabled)  

Other Occurrences  

- Shows where else the selected item was seen.  
  - Occurrences on other data sources in same case  
  - Occurrences in past cases (if Central Repository is enabled)  

Defaults  

- When a new file is selected, can either:  
  1. Stay on same viewer  
  2. Choose the most relevant viewer  
      - Hex and strings are only relevant if nothing else is  
- To change, press the gear icon above the tree

---

### 3rd Party Content Viewer  

Video Triage - from Autopsy  

- Takes snapshots from a video  

Text Summarizer  

- Not part of open source package  
- Name finder and translator  
  - Users Basis Technology text analytics

---

### Other UI Components  

History Buttons to pull back out of a dead end lead.  

Progress bar at the bottom will show pop up all progresses and you can view or cancel them.  

Ingest inbox shows user what has ben found in background tasks.

Files searching by Metadata  

- Search database for files - **Not a Keyword Search**  

File Exporting, Viewing, etc  

- There are right click actions to:  
  - exort a copy of the file  
  - View  in an external viewer  
  - View in a new ("undocked") content viewer  

### Additional Interfaces  

- Nearly all data can be found in the main UI  
- there are some other more focused interfaces:  
  - Timeline: Displays events sorted by time  
  - Image Gallery: Displays pictures and vidwos goruped by folder  
  - communications: Displays accounts, messages, call logs, etc.  
- They can be opened from the tool bar  

---  

## Unit 5: Analyzing Data Sources  

### File Ingest Modules  

- data goes down a pipeline of modules
- Are run on every file in the data source
  - Unless 'Ingest Filters ' are applied  
- Many can run in parallel  
- `Official` Ingest Modulels  
  - Hash Lookup
  - Keyword Search
  - Embedded File Extraction
  - Recent Activity
  - Email

### Data Source Ingest Modules

- Not all data gets passed
- Anaylzes specific data  

### File Priotitization

- The ingest Manager runs in the background and schedules the files for analysis  
- Files go down the pipeline based onpriority:
  - User Folders
  - Program Files and other root folders
  - Windows folder
  - Unallocated space
- If a 2nd images is added while the 1st is still being ingested, the two are done in parallel
  - Files from image #2 could be highest priority  

  Data Source-level Modules  

  - Run on an entire data source  
  - Better for more focused analysis techniques:  
    - Query database for a set of files
    - Analyze the set of files  
    - Post results to blackboard  
  - Versus File-level Modules:  
    - Review every file to determine if it relevant
    - Analyze the relevant files  
    - Post results to blackboard  

### Running Ingest Modules  

- From the `Add Data Source` wizard  
- Right-click on a data source  
  - Modules may require configuration  
  - Basic options may exist when enabling module:  
  - More detailed confguration from `Global Settings` or `Tool -> Options`  

### Unallocted Space  

- You can choose to analyze the uallocated space files
  - They go last  
  
### Ingest filters  

- Allow you to only allow certain types of files down the pipelines.  
  - Only .jpg and .png files
  - Only files in Desktop folder
- Useful for triage / preview situations.  
- You can make them in the "Options" panel.  

### Blackboard Artifacts

- Ingest Moduels will save their results as Blackboard Artificats  
- Artifacts have a type and one or more attributes.  
- Example types:  
  - Web Bookmark
  - Hash Hit
  - Encryption Detected
- Autopsy comes with many predefined types and modules can make their own
- Blackboard Attributes
  - Each artifact has one or more attributes
  - An attribute is a type and value pair
  - Examples for a Web Bookmark artifact:  
    - URL: http://www.autopsy.com
    - DATETIME: april 1, 2020
- Module can choose what attibutes they add to an artifact  

### Viewing Artifacts  

- Shwo in the tree under `Extracted Content`
- Shown in the `Results` content viewer  
- Included in reports  

## Unit 6: Hash Lookup Module  

### Responsibilities  

1. Calculates MD5 hash of files
2. Stores hash in the case database
3. Lookshash up in hash set  
4. Marks file accordingly as:  

- Known (NSRL) - Could be good or bad  
- Known Bad / Notable

### Use Cases  

- To include MD5 hash values in your reports  
- To make ingest faster and skip known files using the NSRL
  - 18 min. vs 9 min. in a recent test
- To hide known files from UI
- To identify notable ('known bad') files  
- To keep central repository up to date and correlate with past cases  

### Hash Calculation Step

Skips the Unallocated space files
Calculates the MD5 of file content  
Stores hash in the case database
If file already has a hash, it does not calculate it again  

### Hash Set Lookup Step  

Looks up MD5 in ***ALL*** of the congured hash sets:  

- Does not stop at first hit  

Supports hash sets:  

- NIST NSRL  
  -Flagged as `KNOWN`  
- EnCase
- The Sleuth Kit SQLite format (.kdb files)
- md5sum
- Hashkeeper  

### Kown Status of a File  

Every file has a "Know Status":  

- Notable / Known Bad
- Kown  
- Unknown - the default  

### What can you configure  

- The databases/hash sets to use
- To always calculate hash value  

### Where Do you see the results  

 Known files  

- May be ignored by other modules (it's the modules choice)  
- Can be hidden from the 'Views' area  
  - User option  
  - Cefalult is to hide them  
- Can be hidden in the directory hierarchy.  
  - User option  
  - Default is to not hide them  

Notable hits:  

- Shown in the "Hashset Hits" section of the tree
  - Organized by hash set name  
- A message in the ingest inbox

### Analysis Shortcut  

We know only a small number of notable files  
There are typically more 'not yet known notable' files near a 'known notable file  
A right-click can bring you directly there.  

### Configure Hash Sets  

Open Hash Lookup Module Settings:  

- Tools -> Options menue  
- Global Settings button from ingest panel
  - New Hash Set  
    - You can create a new local or remote hash set.  
      - Local: Using Autopsy's SQLite database format  
      - Remote: Using the Central Repository  
    - Create them from the options panel  
    - Specify the:  
      - Location  
      - Name  
      - Type
    - Add Hashes to Hash Set  
      - Right click and choos "Add file to hash set"  
        - only hash sets created in Autopsy  
      - Copy and Paste
        - Add a list of hash values to an existing set  
        - Choose "add Hashes to Hash Set" from options panel  
        - Copy and paste on or more MD5 Hashes  
      - At End of Case  
        - Some examiners maintain a has set of all previously tagged files  
        - You can do this in two ways in Autopsy:  
          1. Update a local hash set at the end of the case usin a report module  
          2. Enable a the Central Repository.  It will automatically update when you tag a file as "Noteable"  
  - Import Hash Set
    - Most hash sets arn't sorted.
      - Makes searching them very slow
      - i.e.: 6,1,4,9,2,5,3,0  
    - If you import a hash set that is not sorted, Autopsy will make an "index of it:  
      - Separate file name with "-md5.idx" at end  
      - i.e.: 0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9
    - Hash sets can be stored:  
      - Locally: Only the single computer has access  
      - Remotely: on the central repository and all users have access to it.  
    - The central repsitory allows you to stor information about where the has set came from  
    - How to import a hash set
      - Browse to a hash set ot the index (.idx file)  
      - Pick destination (local or central repository)  
      - Edit the display name  
      - Verify type  
      - Disable inbox messages if set has lots of false positives  
      - If the database does not have an index, you will need to press the "index" button  
      - Could take a while  
    - Importing notes  
      - After you've created an index, copy the md5.idx file for you co-worker so that they don't need to  
        - or consider the remote hash set  
      - Index for NSRL can be downloaded form sleuthkit.org  
      - If you overwrite a Hash Set that has been added, re-index it to get the updates  
        - i.e. a new version of a shared Hash Set  

## Unit 7: Various Small Modules (File Type, Exif, etc)  

## Unit 8: Recent Activity  

## Unit 9: Keyword Search

## Unit 10: Correlation Engine

## Unit 11: Android Analyzer  

## Unit 12: Timeline Interface  

## Unit 13: Image Gallery  

## Unit 14: Communications Interface  

## Unit 15: Tagging, Comenting, and Reporting  

## Unit 16: 3rd Party Modules

## Unit 17: Conclusion  
